# Introduction

Political philosophy has become almost anonymous with ideology. It truly is understood in contradistinction to political science. The distinction between political philosophy and political science is a consequence of the fundamental distinction between philosophy and science. Traditionally, philosophy and science were not distinguished. The great intellectual revolution, which brought to light modern natural science, was a revolution of new philosophers or science against traditional "chiefly Aristotelian" philosophy or science. By virtue of its victory, the new natural science became more and more independent of philosophy. The distinction between philosophy and science became generally accepted, and eventually, also the distinction between political philosophy and political science as a kind of natural science. Traditionally, political philosophy and political science were the same. Political philosophy is not the same as political science in general; political thought is coeval with political life. Political philosophy emerged within a particular political life in Greece. Socrates was the founder of political philosophy.

Socrates taught Plato, who taught Aristotle. The political works of Plato and Aristotle are the oldest works devoted to political philosophy. It is called classical political philosophy. Classical political philosophy was the predominant political philosophy until the emergence of modern political philosophy in the 16th and 17th centuries. Modern political philosophy came into being through a conscious break with the principles established by Socrates. Classical political philosophy includes the Stoics, the church fathers, and the scholastics.

The primary theme of philosophy is nature. Nature means here the character of a thing, or a kind of thing, the way in which a thing or a kind of thing looks and acts. The Greek word for nature (physis) means primarily "growth" and therefore also that into which a thing grows. Things like shoes or chairs do not “grow” but are “made”: they are not “by nature” but “by art”. The atoms to which the philosopher Democritus traced everything, or by nature in the last sense. Nature, however, understood, is not known by nature. Nature had to be discovered. The Hebrew Bible, for example, does not have a word for nature. The equivalent is like "way" or custom. Prior to nature, each thing were kind of thing had a way or custom through the discovery of nature. The radical difference between these two kinds of “ways” or “customs” came into the center of attention. The discovery of nature led to the splitting up of the “way” or “custom” into nature (physis) on the one hand and "convention" or "law" (nomos) on the other. The distinction between nature and convention is fundamental for classical political philosophy, and even for most of modern political philosophy, as can be seen most simply as the distinction between natural right and positive right.

The discovery of nature raises the following questions: are political things natural, and if they are, to what extent? The very question implied that the walls are not natural. But obedience to the laws was generally considered to be justice. Hence, when was compelled to wonder whether justice is merely conventional, or whether there are things which are by nature just. Our laws merely conventional or do they have their roots in nature?

What is meant by the assertion that Socrates was the founder of political philosophy? Socrates turned away from the study of the divine or natural things and directed his inquiries entirely into the human things, i.e., the just things, the noble things, and the things good for man as man. The gods did not approve of man's trying to seek out what they do not wish to reveal. A highest man will therefore investigate only the things left to men's investigation. He started from generally held opinions. The generally held opinions contradict one another. It becomes necessary to transcend the whole sphere of generally held opinions, towards the direction of knowledge. One may say that the law thus proves to points to a divine or natural law. This implies that the human law, precisely because it is not identical with the divine or natural law, is not unqualifiedly true or just. Only natural, right, justice itself, the "idea" or "form" of justice, is unqualifiedly just.

Socrates raises the question "what is?" regarding everything. This question is meant to bring to light the nature of a kind of thing in question, that is, the form or the character of a thing. Knowledge of the whole is, above all, knowledge of a character, the form, the “essential” character of every part of the whole. If the whole consists of essentially different parts, it is at least possible that the political things (or the human things) are essentially different from the non-political things. Socrates realized that nature is primarily "form" or "idea". He originated a new kind of study of the natural things, the nature of or idea of justice.

One cannot understand the nature of a man if one does not understand the nature of human society. Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle assumed that the most perfect form of human society is the polis. The theme of classical political philosophy is the city-state. This presupposes, however, that the city-state is one particular form of "the state". It presupposes, therefore, the concept of the state as compromising the city-state. When people speak today of "the state," they ordinarily understand "state" in the contradistinction to "society". This distinction is alien to classical political philosophy. The modern equivalent to "the city" on the level of the citizens' understanding is "the country". The reason why the classic political philosophers were chiefly concerned with the city was that they preferred the city to those other forms of political society. Tribes are not capable of a high civilization, and large societies cannot be free societies. Let us remember that the authors of the Federalist Papers were still under a compulsion to prove that a large society can be Republican or free. Republicanism pointed back to classical antiquity and therefore also to classical philosophy.
