# Chapter 1. Commodities

## 1: The two factors of a commodity:  Use-value and Value (the substance of value in the magnitude value)

### 1.1: Why I start with the commodity

Marx's quote to himself from "a contribution to a critique of political economy", "the wealth of societies in which the capitalist motive production prevails appears as an immense collection of commodities (appears equals takes the form of) the commodity is its elementary form. Why? In the second Germany edition Marx's discussed that of the presentation must differ from its inquiry if done right it will appear as apriori construction. In what does this method of inquiry exist? In Grundrisse (pg 100) Marx says: "starting with a chaotic conception of the whole ... By means of further determination, move analytically towards evermore simple concepts, from the imagined concrete towards ever thinner, abstractions until ... arriving at the simplest determinations ... them from their the journey would have to be retraced." Marx describes his method is moving from the abstract to the concrete, abstract for Marx means not a apriori/arbitrary, but "below "the surface. To not be constructed, but identified. Through method of abstraction (less to more fundamental). Once's this is done we can add secondary determinations. "So if we can see the passage from empirically observed chaotic phenomenon to the simplest determinations, and that from its simplest determinations to the phenomena, now as a rich totality, as two links in a chain, then it is crucial to understanding the method of capital to graph that it is this second link which forms the key to it structure. We are at this stage of exposition simply not privy to the process of investigation – of abstraction – that has proceeded."
Marx's Grundrisse starts from material production/general production (Grundrisse pg 83-5) and conclude with what will be the opening line of capital: "the first category in which bourgeois wealthpresent itself is that of the commodity. (Grundrisse pg 881)". Capital starts with the simplest motive production – abstract labour as a substance value – as the starting point from which additional determinations are layered. This bill to picture of bourgeois society as a rich totality of many determinations and relations.

### 1.2: The use–value of the commodity

if we have to start with the commodity, then we have to define it. Marx defines it as an external object which satisfies human need, desire, or want. The property of this "usefulness" is use-value. Marx claims "usefulness" wise and it's physical properties. Use-value is "only in the use or consumption (Capital PG 126)." While use-value's properties or physical it is also social. It's property exist in relation to human needs. Some also require a level of social/historical development (silicone). If use-value is intrinsic, it is to the extent that it represents a potential.
"use-values," Marx concludes, "constitute the material content of wealth. Whatever it's social form may be (Capital Pg 126). We should not hear the opposition between 'material' and 'social'. Use-value, the property of usefulness or things that bear this property constitute "wealth": the level nature of the wealth of a given society at a given time is given by the nature and quantity of useful things available to it. Wealth in this sense, i.e. use-value, is material: it exist as such independently of the social conditions of its production and consumption. A shoe is a shoe, and it exists and functions as a shoe independently of the social relations under which it is produced and consumed."

## 1.2: the commodities exchange-value

But where the "capitalist motive, production prevails" use-values are also "the material bearers of exchange value”. Since it is precisely the use value, which is the material bearer of exchange value, the latter intrinsic, as a property of the commodity. Mark's observes that certain quantities of commodities a will add a given point in time and given circumstances, "naturally" exchange for X quantity of commodity B, Y quantity of commodity C, Z quantity of commodity D this tells us that commodity a has at least three distinct exchange values at the same time, each of it's listed exchange values are mutually interchangeable the given quantity that one commodity exchanges for a (different) given quantity of another means that a common element of equal magnitude exist in the two different quantities of the two commodities – that each of the commodities in their given quantities are equivalent to, and therefore reduce to a comma third thing which is in itself, neither one nor the other. What then is that third thing? It cannot be a natural aspect. Disregarding qualitative use value, the only thing that is left is the fact that the command is a product of human labour. As abstract human labor, the simple expenditure of physical and mental human labor, and producing something. Commodities are, considered, like this, strip of their use value, nothing more than "congealed" or "crystallized" human labour, measured in time. As congealed labour-time, we can now consider them as values.

### 1.3 Value: its substance, magnitude and form of appearance

## 2: The twofold character of the labour embodied in commodities

### 2.1 Useful labour

### 2.2 'Value-producing' labour

## 3: The form of value or exchange value

### 3.A The simple, isolated, or accidental form of value

### 3.A.1 First Peculiarity

### 3.A.2 Second Peculiarity

### 3.A.3 Third Peculiarity

### 3.B The total or expanded form of value

### 3.C The general form of value

### 3.D The money form

## 4: The fetishistic character of the commodity and its secret

### 4.1 In what does the mysteriousness of the commodity consist

### 4.2 From where does the mysteriousness of the commodity come from

### 4.3 The limits of political economy
